========================================
UCSM Mechanism Driver Installation Guide
========================================

This installation guide details enabling the Cisco Unified Computing
System Manager (UCSM) Mechanism Driver (MD) to configure UCS Servers
and Fabric Interconnects managed by one or more UCS Managers
in an Openstacki environment.

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The prerequisites for installing the ML2 UCSM mechanism driver are as follows:

* Cisco UCS B or C series servers connected to a Fabric Interconnect
  running UCS Manager version 2.1 or above. Please refer to
  'UCSM Install and Upgrade Guides <https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/servers-unified-computing/ucs-manager/products-installation-guides-list.html>'_
  for information on UCSM installation.

* UCS servers associated with a Service Profile or Service Profile Template
  on the UCS Manager. The vNICs for Openstack use identified before hand.
  Instructions on how to do this via the UCSM GUI can be found in 'UCS
  Manager Server Management Guide <https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/unified_computing/ucs/sw/gui/config/guide/2-2/b_UCSM_GUI_Configuration_Guide_2_2/configuring_service_profiles.html>'

* Openstack Neutron installed according to instructions in 'Neutron Install
  Guide <https://docs.openstack.org/neutron/latest/install/>`_

* Openstack running on the OSs:
     * RHEL 6.1 or above OR
     * Ubuntu 14.04 or above

* UCS Manager version 2.2 running on the Fabric Interconnect.


ML2 UCSM MD Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Install networking-cisco repository as described in the section
   :doc:`/install/howto`.
#. Configure UCSM ML2 Driver.
   Once the networking-cisco code is installed, it needs to be configured and
   enabled in Neutron, the :doc:`/admin/ml2-ucsm` provides full
   details on how to create the neutron configuration for various use cases.

   Below is a simple VLAN configuration which can be applied to
   ML2 neutron config files ``ml2_conf.ini`` and possibly
   ``ml2_conf_cisco.ini``.
   The file ``ml2_conf_cisco.ini`` is optional if you'd like to isolate
   cisco specific parameters.

   .. code-block:: ini

       [ml2]
       #- This neutron config specifies to use vlan type driver and use
       #  cisco ucsm mechanism driver.
       type_drivers = vlan
       tenant_network_types = vlan
       mechanism_drivers = openvswitch,cisco_ucsm

       #- This neutron config specifies the vlan range to use.
       [ml2_type_vlan]
       network_vlan_ranges = physnet1:1400:3900

       #- Provide UCSM IP and credentials
       #  This format can be used when there is 1 UCSM to be configured.
       [ml2_cisco_ucsm]
       ucsm_ip=10.10.10.10
       ucsm_username=admin
       ucsm_password=mysecretpassword

       ucsm_host_list=controller-1:Controller-SP, compute-1:Compute-SP
       ucsm_virtio_eth_ports=ucs-eth-0, ucs-eth-1

   .. end
#. Restart neutron to pick-up configuration changes.

   .. code-block:: console

       $ service neutron-server restart

   .. end

Pre-requisites for SR-IOV port support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before the UCS Servers are purposed as compute host with SR-IOV ports, these
hosts need to be pre-configured to have SR-IOV VFs enabled and ready for
Openstack use and UCSM driver configuration. Here is the list of
pre-requisites for Sr-IOV port support:

#. UCS Servers should house Cisco UCS VIC 1240, Cisco UCS VIC 1340 (both
   with vendor_id:product_id as 1137:0071) or Intel 92599 10 Gigabit
   Ethernet Controller (with vendor_id:product_id as 8086:10ed)

#. Cisco UCS Python SDK version 0.8.2 installed on the Openstack
   controller nodes.

#. A Dynamic vNIC connection policy needs to be defined on the UCSM specifying
   the number of VFs the PF would be split into. This profile also needs to
   specify if the VFs would be created in ``direct`` or ``macvtap`` modes.
   Detailed instructions for creating a Dynamic vNIC Policy and applying
   it on a UCS Server vNIC can be found in 'UCS
   Manager VM-FEX configuration Guide <https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/unified_computing/ucs/sw/vm_fex/kvm/gui/config_guide/2-1/b_GUI_KVM_VM-FEX_UCSM_Configuration_Guide_2_1/b_GUI_KVM_VM-FEX_UCSM_Configuration_Guide_2_1_chapter_011.html#topic_C6C37CF9F34D426EB0C8C5C5C636B7D0>'

#. Associate the Dynamic vNIC connection policy with a PF (physical function
   which is a static ethernet port) by updating its Service Profile.

#. Intel VT-x and VT-d processor extensions for virtualization must be enabled
   in the host BIOS. This can be achieved by adding ``intel_iommu=on`` to
   ``GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`` in /etc/sysconfig/grub [in RHEL] or /etc/default/grub [in Ubuntu] 
 
#. After this grub.conf files on the SR-IOV capable compute hosts need to be
   regenerated by running grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg on BIOS systems or
   grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/efi/EFI/redhat/grub.cfg on UEFI systems.

#. These SR-IOV capable compute hosts need to be rebooted. Due to this operation
   it is better to install Openstack on these compute hosts after this list
   of pre-requisites have been completed.

#. Make sure that IOMMU is activated by running: ``dmesg | grep -iE "dmar|iommu"``. The
   output should include the following lines:

   [ 0.000000] Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/vmlinuz-3.13.0-24-generic root=/dev/mapper/devstack--38--vg-root ro quiet intel_iommu=on
   [ 0.000000] Intel-IOMMU:enabled

#. Run the command ``lspci –nn | grep Cisco`` on these compute hosts to make sure the SR-IOV
   capable VFs are visible to kernel. The output should contain several lines that look like:

     0a:00.1 Ethernet controller [0200]: Cisco Systems Inc VIC SR-IOV VF [1137:0071] (rev a2)`

                                
